everybody welcome to impact theory you
are here my friends because you believe
that human potential is nearly limitless
but you know that having potential is
not the same as actually doing something
with it
so our goal with this show and company
is to introduce you to the people and
ideas that are actually going to help
you execute on your dreams
alright today's guest is a
hyper-intelligent furiously educated
one-man-army hell-bent to create a
brighter future while others may look
forward and see only a dystopian world
where the machines and flavours for our
heat energy he sees only amazing
possibilities and this optimism coupled
with a metric ton of grit and degrees in
molecular genetics and aerospace
engineering from MIT and an MD from
Harvard Medical School have helped him
shape himself into one of the most
potent entrepreneurial forces on the
planet he is committed to helping at
least 1 million entrepreneurs create
companies that matter and he believes
that the best way to predict the future
is to create it as such he's founded 17
companies himself and invested in
countless more that are designed to
alter the very fabric of human society
from human longevity ink and cellularity
which together aim to keep us all
healthy and add 30 high performance
years of the human lifespan to
singularity University which is
disrupting education and business quite
frankly and planetary resources the
company that builds the spaceships
humankind's will need - you guessed it -
toroids he's literally constructing our
future one game-changing Enterprise at a
time he's also the founder and executive
chairman of XPrize the legendary
nonprofit they gave birth to privatized
spaceflight and continues to incentivize
some of the biggest scientific and
technological breakthroughs of the 21st
century it is not hard to see my friends
why Fortune magazine is named of one of
the 50 greatest leaders of our time so
please help me in welcoming the man who
has a stamp with his face on it
the multiple time New York Times
bestselling author of bold and abundance
the future is brighter than you think
dr. Peter Diamandis
hey it is so good to have you on the
show man it is so great to be here pal I
need to get a copy of that introduction
so I said to my mom that is oh my thing
very reasonable I love the story about
the fact that your family really wanted
you to go to medical school which you
did dutifully is a good Greek boy I did
send him the Diploma and then rapidly
pursued your dreams yeah that was a my
parents both were born in Greece in
Island lesbos and came over after World
War Two and I grew up in a in a medical
family and of course back then right you
know you were either a doctor a lawyer
or maybe it maybe an engineer but look
doctor and water was the highest
profession and and so it was expected
that I'd become a physician and it it
drove a good part of my life at the end
of the day I sort of rationalized
becoming a doctor was a great sort of
stepping stone towards my desire my true
desire of going into space because when
I looked at the the actual stats out of
every hundred astronauts the largest
chunk were military and I was not likely
go in the military the next largest
chunk were doctors and then it went down
to scientists and engineers and so I
said okay doctors I could do that
there's a lot of familial pressure to go
into that especially as a son of
immigrants what was the narrative you
were telling yourself when you said okay
Ashley I'm not going to do that on the
net well I kept it secret really
yeah I mean I I I sort of I externally
was the good Greek head of the altar boy
you know going to MIT to study biology
on my way to medical school and all of
my space interests were extracurricular
you know up in my up in my room
I had a closet packed with explosives
literally literally
Mike my best guys are just buying them
right yeah back then you could you could
mail-order explosives and my friend
Billy and I would have would buy the
very best stuff we could you know it
we start with potassium nitrate
saltpeter and and charcoal and sulfur
which is a makes a reasonably good
gunpowder how did you figure that out oh
it's add this great book called poor man
James Bond which was and then there was
in the Anarchist Cookbook both of those
gave me every formulation I wanted I
listen I'm just saying the stuff was
available but I mean right you're really
in trouble with two boys by the oh I
listen and if they ever if you ever
watch this show I've been banned a show
for them but you know we it was my
friend Billy and I used to build
explosives and we learned the potassium
perchlorate versus potassium nitrate
generated on oxygen so he could explode
into water and and that was really great
because we made these little bombs that
we'd throw in the pool blow up until one
day I remember at Jonathan Lynn's home
we threw it in and it you know got this
explosion of water going out and then we
heard this crack and his pool basically
cracked across an entire I learned one
of my one of my rules of physics that
the fluids are not compressible ha ha ha
it's a good lesson yeah that is one
childhood but all of the non-medical
stuff was sort of literally in the
closet and so you've got pretty specific
advice of following your passion and
doing that at what point do you tell
your parents how do they react how do
you keep going in that direction well so
it was an interesting moment in time
because you know went to MIT and I was
doing molecular genetics during the day
and at night and weekends I would go and
hang out at the MDL remand vehicle lab
which is where the astronauts were being
trained and I volunteered to do research
and I would do that in the side and were
you doing molecular genetics cause you
thought you would feed into it yes that
was it was that was the medical that was
the highest probability path to getting
accepted to medical school which was for
like the second class goal graduating
medical school was with the target and
and so I did everything space I was
while I was in undergrad I started my
first organization ever
it's called students for the exploration
and development of space SEDs it still
is
I noticed 35 40 years later the world's
largest college space organization law
and Jeff Bezos I met through said she
was the president of the Princeton
chapter and I found myself running a
national and international organization
of Farlow student space cadets and a lot
of the guys I work with now that a
co-founded companies came out of SEDs
who sort of my sense was my magnet for
attracting like-minded people around the
world right it sort of like this you put
out this quality this is what I stand
for this is what I care about anyone
wants to join me you know cuz you
actually write like a manifesto uh yes I
did write a manifesto in and it was
interesting the year was nineteen but
nineteen one 1982 there was a magazine
back then called hominy magazine
remember Omni magazine okay well there
was uh so it got this manifesto got
published in three magazines and it said
we students that space is our future and
the government is mortgaging our future
it was just long letter to the editor
that said any students who are
passionate about opening up space you
know it's our legacy join me in this
organization I got letters from around
the world people wanted to join and form
a chapter of SEDs
anyway it was awesome fast forward I get
into medical school and I'm going
through medical school and I'm still
doing all my extracurricular space
activities I'm still running you know
said I'm I started a launch company I
had started a university I mean I'm
running two startups during medical
school which was kind of an interesting
so much time so much time now I'll get
back to that but so we're at a point
where we had to declare our internship
and residency this thing called match
and it scared the living [__] out of me
I found myself in a situation where I
was able to escape by in medical school
in that there was always someone else
watching and if I made a mistake would
be caught and and it sort of got known
that my
heart and soul wasn't in medicine isms
other stuff I was doing but when it came
time to become an internment and
resident you're at that point you're
going to become a real doctor and if
you're not being at paying attention
going to kill people and it scared me
it really scared me so I remember going
and calling the head of the man vehicle
lab at MIT and explaining situations
that can I come back and enter the
doctorate program there I need I need a
timeout for medical school right to
figure out what I want to do with my
life and I got accepted back into the
aerospace engineering degree and and
followed that and eventually got my
aerospace engineering degrees went back
and finished medical school but by that
time the two companies I had started
were going forward I like you said mail
the Diploma to my parents and said okay
listen I gotta fess up I'm not gonna
practice medicine
Wow you took that really really far
they're really far but that very
impressive that you could do that all at
the same time you just knowing you
personally from a time management
perspective your use of time is is
unbelievable
I mean it's literally unbelievable and
I'm a guy did I grind I work hard I'm
not afraid of that but watching what you
accomplished with 24 hours is pretty
startling so kudos to you thank you one
thing I want to talk about you talked
about going back to your dad and your
mom and dad both grew up on lesbos you
once like into your dad moving to New
York and becoming a doctor like being a
kin to you going to Mars yeah like
probably so this is really similar to
Lisa's dad's story so he grew up in a
tiny village in the middle of the
mountains in Cyprus yeah goes to Athens
and then ultimately to London and when
you talk to him that's what it sounds
like like the the drastic change in
worldview and how that impacted him what
was I like for your dad what did that
leave on you so I grew up with the
stories of my dad of him you know
speaking about times where he did not
have enough to eat where when all his
friends and he was in a small village
called missing nine in Island lesbos and
he talks about you know tending to
the sheeps and goats and picking olives
and that was you know how he helped keep
his family fed especially during the war
and when he left to go take his entrance
exam to medical school we took the boat
to Athens for the first time his father
was there waving him off and saying if
you don't pass don't come back well and
I'm Tyler pressure yeah Wow he did pass
and he goes to medical school and and
has to work a job during the day and he
couldn't go classes to pay for his
medical school and to pay for room and
board and so he ended up studying at
night and I grew up with this with this
sense of you do what you need to do to
make it happen and you pursue your
dreams and you and education is like the
most important thing you could possibly
get he doesn't speak a word of English
and he just does what it takes and I
think about the journey he made from
this small village on lesbos to becoming
a very successful New York physician
it's like this epic journey of
improbabilities and I think about that
for me the equivalent of going from here
to Mars which is something I do intend
eventually to do yeah I love that yeah
it's um did you look at your dad is a
hero growing oh he was very much a hero
I mean you weren't dismissing him oh god
no oh no I was not dismissing him at all
I was in awe and I listened as much and
you know I have two six-year-old boys
now fraternal twins and I think about
how do I convey the lessons that I
learned from my father because I'm not
growing up in that level of hardship I
am yes
squeezing every you know nanosecond of
time out of every hour but still I just
uh you know just them so appreciative of
what he did right I would have it none
of these opportunities had he not taken
that leap he did I love what you're
saying about your dad that he did
whatever it took and he got the result
you've said this is one of my favorite
quotes of yours I'm going to paraphrase
it but people need to stop focusing on
the problem and start focus
on the solution how do you teach people
to do that like what are you going to do
with your kids to get them to be
solution oriented so I have a belief
that every problem is solvable it may
not be easy to come up with that because
that for most people would seem pretty
counterintuitive well because as I think
about the world we're living in today
it's the realization that we have solved
so many problems to achieve this
extraordinary world we live in today in
terms of global production of food of
energy of water of information we're
living in in the world of Star Trek you
know I mean it's you think about that
that we can diagnose almost anything I
can read your genome for a hundred bucks
in a matter of a couple of hours and
understand all 3.2 billion letters of
your life and have an AI analyze it and
tell me about yourself right I can I can
on one of these devices call up any
piece of information talk to anyone on
the planet these are this is magic this
is crazy stuff you know just twenty
years ago let alone you know a hundred
years ago or a thousand years ago so you
know the realization is any problem is
only a problem contextually today and
we're going to be creating the tools and
knowledge to be able to solve that
problem and I believe that any problem
not forbidden by the laws of physics is
solvable and even then we're going to
sort of learn where the boundaries of
physics truly are so just to give you an
idea why this is such an important
question for me so the whole point of
impact theory is me going okay now I
don't have to worry about money like
what do I really want to do what I want
to do is overcome the poverty of mindset
so most people I just think have a frame
of reference that is so
counterproductive that they don't end up
ringing the potential out of themselves
right so god forbid something happens to
you and your wife and your kids end up
growing up with somebody else they just
have a different frame of reference and
that ultimately stunts their development
right that's like my belief and somebody
grows up in the inner cities or in
Tanzania you know don't have access to
the education system whatever it is that
causes them to have that mind that they
have that mindset and so I'm trying to
answer the question how do you add scale
by leveraging behavior
changing it how do you make sure that
everybody has that mindset so first of
all thank you for that because that
mindset is the virus we need to let
loose into into the cosmos right it's
the realization if people truly believe
what you're saying then everybody
becomes a problem solver and then
problems vanish I mean ultimately at
scale eight billion people solving
problem after problem after problem
means that this world is just dealing
with higher-order problems which is
fantastic I think it's it's by story I
think it's by what you do here it's the
stories that we tell it's the examples
that we give you know you have to ask
yourself the question is is somebody who
is got that mindset smarter probably not
they've just had better experiences and
perhaps luck along the way so I'll give
you one example I mentioned said earlier
so says was my first organization ever
I'm at MIT I am my sophomore year and
I'm passionate about space I find out
there's no student space organization at
MIT oh my god it's crazy semi teach me
student space organization and so I go
to the MIT student center and I find out
you need to get five signatures to start
a group and I on the first I get three
of our fraternity brothers bill Brad and
Roland as the third and then one of
their girlfriends Natalie and that's our
first five and we get it we submit it
and I'm here I'm running the student
space organization and I go and I poster
MIT is before the days of the internet
right before computers like skeptic like
rub on letter type of days like you know
in photocopy days it's in 1982 there
abouts and I I posted the entire campus
and 30 people show up at this meeting
where I pitched this idea of creating a
student space organization and after
that meeting I was so enthralled by this
level of energy like oh my god this has
a future and I remember standing outside
the Student Center looking at the Stars
and sort of seeing fast-forward this
organization actually becoming what it's
become and I send out letters along
with two of my colleagues and it gets
published by astronomy analog and Omni
magazine and hundreds of people write
letters back in and the organization
blossoms into an international student
space organization I find myself running
in the living room of my fraternity
right now uh it was a success and I
became addicted to that feeling of
success now had that been a failure had
I done that and next year no one showed
up and it flopped maybe we'd be having a
different story but in the success I was
like okay what can I do next and next
for me was something called the space
generation foundation and an
international space university is you
which is you know another major
nonprofit success but is growing into
100 million dollar University you know
around the world and it's just been
amazing but I think part of this is
putting yourself out there in trying
it's the ratio of zero to zero to one is
infinite and how do you get people to
just try to overcome their fears that's
the hard part and it's the realization
that it's okay to fail but it's even
better to succeed very well said so the
key moment in that for me and you put
your finger on it is writing or getting
the signatures to start the organization
to believe that you could pull it off
is that optimism something that you
cultivated in your life or is it
something that you come by naturally Oh
interesting right so he came it was when
you peel that onion of taking that first
step that zero to one and getting those
five signatures what drove that right so
what drove that was my my childhood
passion and interest in space I was so
interested in space so enthralled by it
that ultimately I was sort of like
missed there was no space group there
and I was like okay opportunity I'll
create one so the question that becomes
you know what drove that passion in me
and when I think about going back to my
kids I talked about the three things I
want for them
I boil it down to the three most
important things that are important for
any child my children particularly that
I'm driven with them is helping them
find their passion I don't care what it
is I don't care if it's like you know
Barbie dolls or you know right now it's
minecraft and Legos but it's fine that
passion that will drive them self driven
learning and self driven investigation
the second thing is curiosity in a world
where you can know anything curiosity is
so critically important and then grit
and you know grit you know grid and your
story just speaks volumes and so passion
curiosity and grit for me was what I
happen to have learned I learned grit
from my dad because I saw him not give
up right and so in my in my household
went for my kids you know we joke and
seriously say what's the one thing we
don't do and they'll say we don't give
up right so it's like it's just it's and
every day when I walk them to school the
last thing I say to them is ask good
questions today and while we're walking
to school I say what question do you
have for me and so it's I want to get a
culture of question asking and a culture
of not giving up and passion it's my job
to observe the natural passion and then
just fuel it what you want to do okay
paper airplanes fantastic we're going to
learn everybody every paper airplane out
there why they work I love that what I
love about that is it's systematized
right like so few people can get to the
point where they can explain how I'm
going to inculcate this into my kids
life I ask people about the kids a lot
because kids are the one thing that
really forces people to say what am I
trying to teach right what am I trying
to pass on I've got this universe of
things that I think about I'm going to
boil it down to something that I can you
know pass on to the next generation when
it comes to kids people take that really
seriously yeah so it cuts through all
the BS and gets to the point where
people are you know what they really
believe in enough that they're going to
try to pass it on but a lot of people
fall down in the how well so it's
interesting my kids are going into
kindergarten and I think about honestly
will they ever go to college
and do we actually reinvent what school
is like for them what role do I play I
mean one of the things that I'm excited
about it's getting them involved in Dean
Kamen's FIRST Robotics Competition right
so FIRST Robotics if you don't know
about it is this incredibly rich
after-school experience where kids first
starting with Legos build robotic Legos
to do do certain things and then at the
high school level a FIRST Robotics team
gets basically a box of stuff they have
to build a robot that accomplishes a
certain task like like picks up
basketballs and shoots them into the
hoop while knocking out other robots and
it's you it's about learning how to
think through a problem and build the
system and become engineers you know
ultimately our society tends to make
heroes out of who rockstars sports stars
your chance of becoming a rock star or
sports star or public you know the only
thing less than Matt is probably
becoming an astronaut but at the end of
the day you know so we idolize these
rock stars these TV stars these sport
stars and and it okay I guess but we
should be idolizing you know people like
yourself and in engineers and scientists
and you know incredible people on the
planet and so FIRST Robotics is all
about recognition and celebration of
engineers and scientists all right what
is the most important elements to
thinking like an entrepreneur um being
fascinated by how you would solve it and
then creating something that you really
want and that you authentically believe
in like you do this show and then being
able to express it to people so you know
I'm working right now on a 19 startup
and it's a it's it's why I undersold you
in the intro at the right by 2 but
that's ok but um but the it's
reinventing the news media right oh it's
a really exciting one I'm so excited
about it I can't say much about it but
right now when you're watching the news
on TV whatever you're counting on an
individual call
a news editor to decide what you put
into your brain right and it's insane
that you should allow the crisis news
network or the constant negative news
network whatever you call CNN I love my
little my little you know little tweaks
not jabs on CNN but we allow them to
decide what I should sing over and over
and over again and your mindset is
everything so imagine if you could have
some other mechanisms for controlling
what you see and when you see it anyway
I won't go into more than that but at
the end of the day I I'm excited to buy
this in theory and we are building the
beta right now and for me the tire hits
the road as an entrepreneur if I love it
and I use it and until I love it and use
it all the time it doesn't go in from
the ethos out there it needs to be
something I'm passionate about for
anybody who doesn't know what is your
fascination with Star Trek and how
deeply have you baked it into said green
chair companies so so I was born in the
60s and an apollo occurred Paula Levin
occurred in 1969 which was an incredibly
formative moment in my life the entire
Apollo program and at the same time you
know Star Trek debuted 1966 I didn't see
it then I saw it in the reruns and it
had three seasons in total but when I
was seeing it in 1969 1970 Apollo showed
me what was going on right now and Star
Trek is this is where we're going and
the one-two punch just made me enamoured
with the future in space that this was
this was a destiny of humanity we are
about to launch into the cosmos and so I
became enamored with Star Trek and the
more you look at Star Trek Star Trek
Gene Roddenberry the creator writer
producer of Star Trek I know his son rod
Roddenberry gene Ron Bay was a brilliant
man what Gene Roddenberry created was a
set of technologies on that show that
are still driving us today
right so he had the communicator right
that you were able to this
into and talk to anybody on the planet
and of course you know we take that for
you know that was a crazy idea back in
the 60s with rotary dial you know
landline phones
he had the tricorder right and we have
just in within the XPrize as you know we
just had the awarding of the 10 million
dollar prom tricorder X Prize the
tricorder was a thing that bones or
Spock would use to diagnose someone and
go you know Jim he's an alien you know
or he's got my Gillian fever or whatever
the case might be and and so we we
challenged teams throughout the world
here to create the Star Trek tricorder a
device that could diagnose 15 diseases
for you as a mom two o'clock in the
morning when your kid is sick they you
know he has the replicator device that
you know you can create anything and
that's you were just on it on the on the
way towards that with 3d printing and so
Star Trek just created these amazing
this view of the future and probably one
of the most interesting views of the
future that no one talks about is the
future of Star Trek had no economy in a
world in which you can create anything
money has little to no value you're
living in a world of abundance where you
can create anything you want diseases
cured education is available through an
AI you can create anything through it
through this you know replicator you can
go anyplace and what really had value in
the future and will have value for us in
the future is raw material like you know
an asteroid worth or a planet worth over
here energy from the Sun or from in that
case dilithium crystals or information
sets to manufacture something so I see
the Star Trek universe is really a
target we're heading towards I love how
so one of my favorite things is when
somebody who's very successful who I
take very seriously as an entrepreneur
is I think or whatever is so impacted by
something pop culture that it makes its
way into everything that they do and so
at the last year's vision earring summit
literally all the teams presenting a new
potential XPrize had to say how the
XPrize was in line with Roddenberry's
world view after that was amazing and
then the tricorder X Prize so let's talk
about how somebody can go and see Star
Trek and see this absurd device which
everybody else discounts it just says
it's fiction it can never be and then
the person namely you that goes no no we
can there's a way to actually make that
like is it just been like first you earn
a little credibility with yourself and
then a little bit more a little bit more
in a stacks up till you're so brazen
that you go for the tricorder like how
does that happen first of all I would
posit that science fiction all-time
fiction written television movies and so
forth create this believable future and
after you've read it or watched it if
you are all of a sudden back in reality
here there's this dissonance between
this should be possible and we're here
and and if you you know can make that
leap to say okay it's possible how do we
get there and X prizes are all about
saying I don't care where you went to
school what you've ever done if you
solve this problem you win and so it's
putting out a bold objective goal right
like here's the 15 diseases you have to
be able to to detect and here are the
vital symptoms that will detect and if
you do this you win 10 million bucks and
we're not too far from that being
possible for all of us what I mean by
that is we're within 10 to 20 years from
us being able to be in a world where we
can speak our desires to an AI and that
AI is able to drive 3d printing
technology synthetic biology technology
eventually nanotechnology and your your
thoughts verbalized become matter right
I mean it really is it's going from mind
to matter to mark
place I talked about this you know we're
all gonna become entrepreneurs in the
future or if I have an idea for
something that I truly desire like like
I want this mug and I can say to my AI
listen I want something can carry some
hot coffee and I like a you know I like
a handle on it and can you color it
white and can you give it the thermal
property so that something inside it
will stay warm for a much longer period
and I'd like it to be less than ten
cents so pick a material that that's
cheap and I can look at say yeah can you
scale a little bit larger I haven't
written a piece of code I've just I'm
expressing what I want that's in my mind
in my heart and this AI is then taking
that desire and converting it to the
right code or the right whatever it
might be so that it becomes a file that
can be then manufactured and that level
of magic is coming very fast coming very
fast it's sort of Iron Man and Jarvis
materialized in the next decade what are
you most excited about right now with
technology like that getting so
near-term well everything that so I'm
I'm driven by to moonshots that I'm on
right now I'm on a moonshot for mining
asteroids and the mining of the
asteroids is just a part of the opening
up the space frontier right that during
our lifetimes in the next 10 to 20 years
that we're going to be moving
irreversibly into space right I'm so
thrilled that Jeff Bezos is doing what
he's doing the Blue Origin
I knew Jeff at the earliest days of
Amazon I remember him telling me I'm
building Amazon but which by the way is
a half a trillion dollar company right
I'm building Amazon in order to make the
money to go and open the space frontier
Wow right and so it was about two months
ago he sold a billion dollars of Amazon
stock to continue fueling Wow Blue
Origin space company and then
Elon Musk who I met now back in 2001 has
been as passionate about opening up
space and really SpaceX is just
lightyears ahead of most all the other
aerospace companies so you got to
incredible wealth
passionate driven entrepreneurs opening
up space my part of that is with a
company called Planetary Resources
that's going out to these asteroids that
are rich in fuels in particular hydrogen
and oxygen which is rocket fuel from the
shuttle main engine and then platinum
group metals and construction metals and
so forth and these are trillion dollar
assets if I can lasso one of those and
put on the public markets I'd be set for
life we our first target asteroid is
something like a 10 to 100 trillion
dollar asset depending upon you know how
you do it or devalue it for the other
thing I'm passionate about is is human
longevity it's the realization that we
are now gaining the tools to begin to
understand why we age and ultimately why
we die and the question is do we have to
you know certain species of life on this
planet sharks whales turtles have known
multi hundred year lifespans I remember
seeing a show on that while I was in
medical school and I locked in and said
okay if they can why can't I and I said
clearly it's a hardware a software
problem and so I've dedicated a lot of
my energy and you named in the two
companies human longevity and
cellularity human longevity is the
genomic side of the equation cellularity
is the stem cell side of the equation
which are just two of a couple of the
different technologies and there are
many others why does stem cells excite
you stem cells excite me because they
are our primordial stuff so let me give
you a 101 lesson in stem cells so when a
woman gets pregnant and a fetus starts
developing in the uterus what is
surrounding that that fetus and creating
sort of the nest for it is the placenta
and the placenta actually is supplying
to that fetus all of the stem cells that
it needs to grow every tissue every
organ every part of its body so a stem
cell is a primordial
that can develop into anything brain
liver heart long skin bone cartilage
whatever it might be
and when that child is born when you
know my children were born I actually
stored their placentas there's a company
called life Bank people store cord blood
my recommendation is that's great at a
minimum store the the placental cord
blood and there's lots of companies all
do that but I think storing the placenta
is much more powerful right it's not
just the cells that generate the human
Petach system it's all of the stem cells
that create the child anyway in a child
that lose blood and tissues are coursing
with stem cells whenever any damage
takes place any inflammation occurs
those stem cells are goats that plenum
inflammation and very rapidly repair
what's going on but as we grow older two
things happen one our stem cell
populations in our bone in our fat in
our and our organs diminishes hundreds
or thousands of fold so far less stem
cells going through our body and the
stem cells in our body have undergone
genetic changes because of radiation the
stuff you drink and eat it's just normal
degradation of your genome which changes
over your lifespan so if I go and
extract stem cells in my body right now
my blown bone marrow or fat which are
the two largest reserves and I sequence
it and if I could compare it to the stem
cells of my birth I would see that
that's changed so my stem cells have now
reduced in number and have become
somewhat senile so their ability to
continue to repair me has reduced which
is one of the theories of why we age and
so one of my business partner is my
co-founder of human longevity and my
partner and founding cellularity Bob
Murray Bob's an MD PhD and their your
fighter pilot one of the rock stars in
the stem cell world there's actually
done the work to show if you take in
this case he did to work in in mice you
take the placentas of that mice you
convert it to dosages of stem cells that
you then give to that mouse at the end
of its life like in this case typically
a twenty six month old mouse you will
extend that Mouse life another thirty to
forty percent
whoa right you'll add another year
almost on to it and that's been repeated
in a number of different ways there's a
whole thing called the Youngblood
experiments being done at Stanford and
right now the experiments are going on
in humans as well that if you know it's
sort of like sort of Dracula I'm a
vampire but if you take the blood of a
young individual and transfuse it with a
plasma not the cellular portion right
into an older person you will get a lot
of return to youthful State and in
reality it turns out that there are a
number of stem-cell clinics outside the
United States and I happen to know a
number of 80 something-year-old
billionaires who go and don't get young
blood infusion but get stem-cell
infusions why not young blood well it
turns out that the stem cells actually
generate the the growth factors and all
the chemical miliar that is in the
plasma they live for a hundred days now
is it stem cells from themselves
no it's stem cells from newborns really
it's the stem cells from the placentas
or the cord blood that are typically
thrown away that is utterly fascinating
I could do an entire show just picking
your brain about that and these are
kinds of conversations that I think were
verboden or were crazy before but there
are a lot of scientists today talking
about aging as a disease not an
inevitability right how do you feel
about augmenting yourself like are you
going to do it maybe you won't be an
early adopter but we oh I would be an
early adopter yeah I was onstage
speaking at singularity University and
the guy who spoke after me was talking
about implantables and he said yes we
have these these little RFID things that
you can put data onto you
at them and he's and so afterwards I
said can I and he said sure
and so we went back on stage and he
implanted right here you can feel it
whoa wow I've got this little RFID if
you take your near-field ID with your
phone you get my business card off of it
are you serious yeah do you have one on
your phone I don't have to turned on but
what we put it on a particular good
rasie butt so listen I think there's got
to be some level of safety but I'm much
more risk so at than I would say yeah
you know I think it's interesting
because today
if you think about the world of sensors
I've got heartrate and steps on here
very soon we'll have glucose and blood
pressure and other elements and we're
probably within five years Apple Samsung
Google Facebook everyone's working on on
sensors for your body so man I could
keep going on forever but so limited
time there's two things I want to talk
about is it true that you have like a
board of advisers that are science
fiction writers we do we have created at
the XPrize Foundation a board of 35
science fiction writers that we will
we've just formed it but we'll call on
because at the end of the day you know
coming up with X prizes coming up with
you know big bold crazy ideas that are
on the verge of just being doable you
know why not call people whose
profession is to come up with those
things and what do you think they do to
stay at the edge of that are they just
researching real world technologies or
they live accidents becoming harder to
write stuff which is real hardcore
science fiction because all the things
we used to think of I mean once you've
got AI and nanotechnology nothing's
impossible right we're sort of like game
over or game start well that brings me
to my next question so and very
interesting that you switched it from
game over to game start as this happens
AI comes on
just we're at a place where robotics AI
we can create just about anything we
want to Mazar essentially wiped out from
the current way we think about jobs or
call it roughly 50% what happens
societally what happens to the
generation that would have to make that
transition what does universal basic
income look like yeah is all that so
when people sort of ask me are you
fearful of AI you know is AI the devil
is again you know destroy is it
determine a destroyed humanity I answer
no it's not I think AI is probably one
of them artificial intelligence when I
say AI is one of the most important
tools humanity will ever create that
will become our partner in solving any
challenge we want and so I differ with
you know Stephen Hawking and Elon Musk
and Bill Gates it's kind of hard to go
up against those guys but I disagree I
think that's that's their you know
amygdala speaking and they've seen
Terminator too many times but at the end
of the day I am concerned about AI
taking our jobs
I am concerned about AI and robotics
disrupting a lot of our current jobs I'm
not concerned in the long term because I
think we're going to adapt society to
that's fine but in the near term it's
the rate at which we're going to be
losing jobs right we've all we've lost
jobs over and over and over again I
remember the number particularly in 1810
we had 84 percent of Americans were
farmers and today's under two percent
eighty four percent to two percent
wiped out all those jobs and of course
we became far more efficient and now
robots robotic tractors and so forth
will do the farming and such and that's
that kind of magnitude change is fine of
going from 50% of our jobs I tell my
sister all times anesthesiologist that
her job is going to be replaced much
better by an AI in robot right then the
human doctor and all surge will be done
by robots and all diagnosticians will be
replaced by a is but it's the rate at
which we do those transitions truck
drivers taxi drivers all those things
being replaced and today
our meaning of our life is wrapped up in
what we do so the two issues with
technological unemployment is how you
earn your living and then what you do to
create significance in your life and so
the first I think it's going to be
solved by universal basic income I think
ultimately we're were demonetized in the
cost of living it's becoming cheaper and
cheaper to live right so the example I
give today is you know this device will
eventually become your teacher and your
healthcare provider for free the same
way that access the world's information
is available across the world for free a
car today you know I love my car and and
I'm not a car guy but I love it I love
the Tesla but I'm going to park it or
get rid of it when autonomous Tesla
autonomous cars come online because
autonomous car is going to be 10 times
cheaper and far more convenient so we're
going to give up car ownership for
something that's one-tenth the cost and
then a whole bunch of things change but
how we deal with the significance of our
jobs in our lives that's going to be an
interesting question and so I'm
concerned about that I'm concerned about
people feeling angry towards technology
for disrupting their lives and that's
something I was hitting a lot of time
thinking about these days
she read Fahrenheit 451 god back in high
school I think saying I found really
interesting about that it planted a seed
in my head was that there exists out in
the woods the people who so were
unwilling to give up books that they
were more prepared to give up society
and so they move out into the woods and
I that seems an inevitability as we
because especially when I think about it
not so much as AI but I think about it
is human machine interface so as we
begin implanting things into our brains
that augment it or even just as we begin
messing with our own gene sequencing
and people that you know refuse to start
doing selection on genetic criteria for
their babies and like eventually they'll
lose like it just doesn't seem like the
venturi Linea those people so people who
are the lar the Luddites and yeah yeah
so it is true I think we're going to
split humanity into those who want to
retain their old ways and and that's
been case always and those who choose to
if you would plug in and I think it's
interesting cuz I've thought a lot about
that and then I've written about that I
think that once we are able to connect
the brain to cloud and Ray Kurzweil puts
that date as early to mid 2030s right
2033 whoa 2035 times check that's you
know 16 years from now there abouts
that's not very far away I mean 16 years
ago was you know 2001 right no I mean
not not I remember like it was yesterday
so and of course you've got amazing
individuals like Brian Johnston with
Colonel and Elon Musk with neural link
and a whole bunch of other players out
of Facebook out of Google working on
this technology as well it's about how
you enhance human intelligence and then
ultimately you know human intelligence
is the most important thing we can have
and I think once you're able to enhance
your intelligence and sort of plug into
what I call the meta intelligence where
you if you plug into the cloud and I can
know the thoughts of a man woman and
child on this on this world and know
anything I want at any time it's so
powerful so addicting that I think to
unplug from that would be to feel like
you're you're shut off and you're blind
from the world it's so interesting how
much fear and anxiety people have over
the change and and all that and my whole
thing is you get what you focus on so if
you're focusing on that then it's going
to be big and scary but at the same time
if you focus on the potential beauties
of the you know billions of new minds
coming
and being connected to them and the
revelations that will happen and as we
really take control of the next phase of
our evolution like how interesting it
gets have you read Hammoud Deus I
haven't yet I'm continuing we're going
to love it you're going to love it
so I've become a total evangelist for
this book absolutely obsessed got to get
the author on here and he basically
walks through sort of how the way the
human mind works you know my obsession
with narrative nonfiction he does the
most eloquent job of explaining that are
fictions the stories that we tell are
like David Foster Wallace's notion of
this is water like they're so
ever-present these stories that we're
telling each other we don't even realize
that they're stories so one of the
examples he gives us money right money
is an interest objective truth it is
only real in as long as we've everybody
believes it right the second people
don't believe in it like that like it
ceases to have any value whatsoever and
he said any list like I mean just 5 6 7
different narratives and one of the that
we're all taking for granted and one of
the most beautiful was how during the
Crusades the Christians and the Muslims
lined up perfectly and it's it is in
their cemetry in that they're telling
the same fiction just from opposite
sides right once you God once your God
that wants us to reclaim the Holy Land
the only part that's different is their
true God is different than theirs and so
they collide and kill each other but and
he talks about how if either of them
like the story had been different like
Oh pretending you know one true God what
he wants is for you to live in peace and
harmony and landmass is totally
irrelevant when it meets this force that
has to have the landmass then then they
would acquiesce right it is only because
they're telling the exact same story
from opposite sides that you get the
historic collision that we got and he
talks about how to anybody living back
in that time like it would've made sense
right so if you're this kid growing up
in England that's about to go fight the
Crusades the woman whose attention you
want like she's looking at you like oh
my god you're going to go off to the
Crusades and you know she's fluttering
her eyelashes and their family is like
oh my god you going to bring glory to
the family into the church like this
amazing you should be doing it but now
when we look back at it seems so absurd
yeah and so and he says there
you can take any time in history you
want and to those people the fiction
would have been invisible it would have
all seemed absolutely objectively true
and it was being mirrored back to you at
every level of your society to the point
where you can't see it but that with
enough distance you'll say well that was
obviously ridiculous and he said so what
do you believe it
right now that a hundred years from now
will seem patently ridiculous yeah it's
got the chills so it's like that to me
is when I look at the stories people
tell themselves whether it's the
Terminator or whether it's the Borg
whatever story they're telling about the
scary future it's like okay well as long
as you're in a group that's sort of self
reinforcing that I get it I get why it
seems like we have to like we're already
at war with a I like emotionally and it
hasn't even been truly created yet it's
just it's the other right it's the
difference so how we get over that as a
species is something that I find utterly
fascinating I don't think at all that I
have the answer and we're going to find
out during our lifetimes I mean that's
the most incredible thing that I keep
reminding people like wake up the next
20 years this game plays out right which
is why I'm so convinced we're in the
middle of a video game anyway you know
it's it's like we're living during the
most extraordinary times it's all
playing out we're in the final phase of
the gameplay and we're right here right
now clearly word this is a simulation
interesting there are I had you a little
bit exercise when you brought that up I
want to believe that because it fits so
well with my life matrix yeah Methos but
for whatever I can't get over time and
if somebody can explain to me how either
the people watch it because the only
reason to do a simulation is to watch it
play out and if you don't live long
enough to watch it play out then there
would be no point so but you could
create a simulation have it have it play
out at a billion times of clock speed so
that's where I end and and replant it
and restart it again and that you know
this whole notion of parallel universes
I mean the notion that that I mean if I
were a scientist trying to create a if I
could create a virtual computational
world right using whatever quantum
computers and except an AI inside and
set the original conditions and let it
play out and tweak
conditions how to play out and running
Monte Carlo simulation what's that that
it's a it's a it's a simulation in which
you change a few small variables and run
a million of them in parallel or in a
billion of them in parallel imagine a
world in which in in alien civilization
you set the starting conditions and and
you know literally let an infinite
number of these play out in parallel and
then see what happens I don't know it's
I find these thoughts too compelling to
just let go yeah I'm with you
the one that I think freaked me out was
when I realized that the DNA first of
all is can be represented as zeros and
ones so already just life is could
essentially be digital code but yeah I
find that stuff
utterly utterly fascinating yeah and
again next twenty years dude anyway it's
just an amazing life I consider myself
so lucky to be alive right now
exactly all right before I ask my final
question where can these guys find you
online so Diamandis calm is my website I
put out a weekly tech blog I work a lot
on this on Friday and Saturday thank you
and on twitter i'm just-just my name
peter diamandis
you know singularity university come and
get involved in SU we run programs for
executives for graduates XPrize org x PR
IV e o RG you know we're taking on the
world's biggest problems you know fun
stuff
what's the impact you want to have on
the world um so my MTP what I call my
massively transformative purpose is to
inspire and guide the transformation of
humanity on and off the earth and just a
to peel the onion there I believe that
we are undergoing a transformation as a
species from what we have today to this
notion of a meta intelligence
and that transformation is happening
both on the earth and off the earth I
had to add the non earth part for the
child in May right and I think that's
going to have to be inspired and and
properly guided to to have the minimal
negative impact I think this is
happening I think we are the lungfish
coming out of land I think we are
speciated as a species it is way to the
rate of changes way too high and so I
think about that I want to help make the
play human race and multiplanetary
species and for me it's about changing
the mindset of people from scarcity
minded to abundance minded I think that
changes the game when people go from now
it's all mine to there's an infinite
amount let's share so okay so far so
good having fun I love it man thank you
so much for coming on the show down
exactly all right guys I'm telling you
this is somebody that you're going to
want to get to know at every conceivable
level I really believe that he is
leading the world in terms of
understanding not only where we are
near-term future where we could be and
how we're going to get there into the
future and I think there are very very
few people that do it with the level of
compassion brotherly love like one thing
about this guy that you learned very
quickly behind the scenes like he's got
that Greek warmth he is so kind brings
you into a big hug it is amazing and he
greets the transition from where we are
today to where we can be in the future
with that same sense of love compassion
empathy and it's wonderful I don't think
there's anybody on the planet that I
have met that would be better suited to
do that to introduce people to the
technologies the ideology the things
we're going to need to do and he knows
how to go raise the funds to actually
make these companies real to get them to
be profitable and most importantly and
this is the thing he will never get
enough credit for here's a huge
long-range vision but he always starts
with what do we have to do today how do
we do today and then tomorrow one step
after another and tell the
Rand dream becomes very blase where
you've seen him execute so many steps
that it becomes an inevitability I've
never met anybody else as good as he is
at that and for that reason I beg you go
learn from him don't even just listen to
what he says watch what he does because
that will highly instruct you and what
you should be doing alright he and I are
in the middle of a bet right now it is
the first to 3 million followers and I'm
begging you help this man beat me prove
your life I'm not kidding
dive in get to know them and guys if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care everybody thanks so much for
joining us for another episode of impact
Theory if this content is adding value
to your life our 1 ask is that you go to
iTunes and stitcher and rate review not
only does that help us build this
community which at the end of the day is
all we care about but it also helps us
get even more amazing guests on here to
show their knowledge with all of us
thank you guys so much for being a part
of this community and until next time be
legendary my friend
[Music]